.TH mdvic 1 "mdvic" "mdvic"
.SH NAME
mdvic \- minimal terminal Markdown renderer with math and tables
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mdvic
[
.B --no-color
]
[
.B --no-lint
]
[
.B --wrap | --no-wrap
]
[
.B --width
\fIN\fR
]
[
.B --math
\fIunicode|ascii\fR
]
[
.B --no-osc8
]
[
.I FILE...
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mdvic
parses CommonMark (via libcmark) and renders ANSI for headings, emphasis,
inline code, block quotes, lists, and GFM-style tables. It can optionally
convert a strict subset of TeX-style math (planned) into Unicode/ASCII.

By default mdvic does not soft-wrap; use your pager to control wrapping.
Enable pre-wrap with \fB--wrap --width N\fR when desired.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B --no-color
Disable ANSI colors.
.TP
.B --no-lint
Disable lint warnings. Lint normally reports unclosed fences, unmatched
inline backticks, and malformed table rows to stderr.
.TP
.B --wrap, --no-wrap
Enable or disable pre-wrapping. No-wrap is the default.
.TP
.BI --width " N"
When wrapping is enabled, set the wrap width. If omitted, mdvic tries to
detect terminal width.
.TP
.BI --math " unicode|ascii"
Select math rendering mode (planned: default unicode).
.TP
.B --no-osc8
Disable OSC-8 hyperlink emission; fall back to printing "text (URL)".
.SH ENVIRONMENT
.TP
.B MDVIC_NO_COLOR=1
Disable ANSI colors.
.TP
.B MDVIC_NO_LINT=1
Disable lint warnings.
.TP
.B MDVIC_WRAP=1, MDVIC_NO_WRAP=1
Enable or disable pre-wrapping.
.TP
.B MDVIC_NO_OSC8=1
Disable OSC-8 hyperlinks.
.TP
.B MDVIC_WIDTH=\fIN\fR
Override detected terminal width (when wrapping).
.TP
.B MDVIC_MATH=ascii
Use ASCII math fallbacks instead of Unicode.
.SH EXIT STATUS
Returns 0 on success, nonzero on error.
.SH EXAMPLES
.PP
Render with pager without hard wraps:
.IP
mdvic README.md | less -RS
.PP
Enable pre-wrap at 80 columns:
.IP
mdvic --wrap --width 80 README.md
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR less (1)

